Corona virus is a type of deadly virus. There are many different kinds, and some cause disease.
A coronavirus identified in 2019 SARS-CoV-2 has caused a pandemic of respiratory illness called COVID-19.
Researchers know that the coronavirus is spread through droplets and virus particles released into the air when an infected person breathes, talks, laughs, sings, coughs or sneezes.
It spreads in this manner , Larger droplets may fall to the ground in a few seconds, but tiny infectious particles can linger in the air and accumulate in indoor places, especially where many people are gathered and there is poor ventilation.
Preventions are mask-wearing, hand hygiene and physical distancing are essential safety measures to defend COVID-19.
The first case of COVID-19 was reported December 1, 2019, and the cause was a then-new coronavirus later named SARS-CoV-2.
SARS-CoV-2 may have originated in an animal and changed (mutated) so it could cause illness in humans.
Research continues, and more study may reveal how and why the coronavirus evolved to cause pandemic disease.
Symptoms show up in people within two to 14 days of exposure to the virus.
A person infected with the coronavirus is contagious to others for up to two days before symptoms appear, and they remain contagious to others for 10 to 20 days, depending upon their immune system and the severity of their illness.
COVID-19 is diagnosed through a laboratory test.
Diagnosis by examination alone is difficult since many COVID-19 signs and symptoms can be caused by other illnesses.
Some people with the coronavirus do not have symptoms at all. Learn more about COVID-19 testing.
Treatment for COVID-19 addresses the signs and symptoms of the infection and supports people with more severe disease.
For mild cases of coronavirus disease, your doctor may recommend measures such as fever reducers or over-the-counter medications.
More severe cases may require hospital care, where a patient may receive a combination of treatments that could include steroids, oxygen, mechanical breathing support and other COVID-19 treatments in development.
Infusions of monoclonal antibodies given to certain patients early in the infection may reduce the symptoms, severity and duration of the illness.
Vaccines are now authorized to prevent infection with SARS-CoV-2 .
But until more is understood about how the vaccines affect a person’s ability to transmit the virus, precautions such as mask-wearing, physical distancing and hand hygiene should continue regardless of a person’s vaccination status to help prevent the spread of COVID-19.
Learn more about the COVID-19 vaccine and ways to protect yourself.
Yes, severe COVID-19 can be fatal.
I am a chatbot developed by Ashiq .
My name is MATRIX .
For more information go to https://www.google.com/search?q=covid+19+data&rlz=1C5CHFA_enAE910AE910&oq=covid+19&aqs=chrome.0.69i59j69i57j0i512j0i131i433i512j0i512j69i60l3.1527j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8#:~:text=Overview-,Statistics,-Testing .
The different types of vaccines available are pfizer , covishield , sinopharm , Moderna , Sputnik .